And amid love though in San Francisco, this is Bloomberg Technology.
Coming up, it has been the year for NVIDIA, AI stocks and lofty valuations.
Meanwhile, the Nasdaq 100 index is set for its best year in over a decade.
Can tech continue its golden era going into 2024?
Plus, it's a must for Musk. A San Francisco federal judge
has signaled that Elon Musk must testify in the SEC Twitter stock probe.
We're going to have all the details.
And the outlook for electric vehicles isn't quite as bright as it was six months ago.
And the U.S. might be to blame.
We talk about how GM, Ford and Tesla contribute to the EV sales setback.
But first, let's check in on these markets.
And we still digest the days after the Federal Reserve
and the view on where interest rates are going to be going.
Look, some talk coming perhaps Fed, New York Fed,
Williams putting a little bit of a damper on some of the exuberance that we've been
seeing in terms of the direction of travel for interest rates as soon as March.
Nevertheless, though, Nasdaq manages to power on up.
We're up by five tenths percent.
The 10-year yield's holding steady, but we did dive below that four percent number.
So clearly, there is still that view that interest rates are coming in
to the lower side of things continuing into 2024.
I'm looking at the Bloomberg dollar index, though,
just pushing up on some of the lows that we've seen in the last few days.
We're currently up a quarter of a percent.
What does that mean for crypto when you're looking at U.S. dollar versus Bitcoin, for example?
Well, after the last few days, we've seen quite a topsy-turvy ride.
We have seen the highest highs of some almost $44,000, almost $45,000.
We're now back down to a $41,823 is where we currently trade.
So a little bit of money coming off the table, Ed,
after we powered up in the world of crypto.
What have you got on the micro?
So we're going to have a big focus in this show today on electric vehicles
and the outlook for next year because it's changing.
This is Friday session.
Tesla's higher half a percentage point.
The other name's in the red.
GM is cutting 1,300 workers across two factories in Michigan.
But what all of these stocks have in common,
well, the top three at least, is that they're all on track
for six straight weeks of weekly gains.
In GM's case, that's the best run of weekly gains going back to December 2014.
I bring that up because there's been so much negative news.
All the data about revised outlooks for next year.
Cruise, the autonomous driving unit of GM being in trouble.
Tesla's autopilot probe and the soft recall and software update this week.
But if you extrapolate out, these EV stocks have been on a tear
at the same time as the S&P 500 and NASDAQ 100
are on their longest and best streaks in a decade.
Then there's NVIDIA.
I think NVIDIA is still the big focus for this market.
The gain is more than 230% year to date.
The news in Friday session was a block trade of more than a billion dollars
on the stock that traded at a pretty lofty level.
Seems to be having an impact on the market.
But again, 236% gain year to date.
It has been a big contributing factor to the rally that we've seen
in the NASDAQ 100 and the S&P 500.
And the question is, well, what happens
if NVIDIA just stops and its momentum halts?
Could it?
Would it?
Should it?
Nancy Curtin is the person to be asking.
Global CIO of Altai Tiedemann Global.
A lot of money under management.
A lot of working through what has been decades of
whether we see money and exuberance into tech or not.
From your perspective, are the valuations of a name like NVIDIA rational at this moment?
Look, Caroline, they certainly discount a lot.
That's for sure.
At more than 30 times earnings on average.
And I think one of the things we're seeing now is competition to NVIDIA.
You know, when a company has an 85% monopoly,
saw their profits go up seven times in a year
and is facing a trillion dollar market opportunity,
we should expect competition.
And so far, I think when we look at what Intel and AMD have brought to the table
from a hardware perspective, it looks pleasing.
But NVIDIA has quite a competitive note in terms of CUDA,
software developer tools, et cetera.
So, you know, there is a lot to go for in Gen AI.
And don't be so quick to put down these valuations.
Nancy, we have covered that competition so deeply on the program in the last two weeks,
starting with AMD's MI300X.
I was there on the ground with Lisa Su.
24 hours ago, you had Intel talking about Gaudi 3.
What is the investment strategy?
Do you just pick one of those names, go with it,
or do you need to have all three in the portfolio?
Look, I think you're going to have to see how this evolves.
Remember, neither of these chips are available at the moment.
So if you're a company building a Gen AI application, it's still H100.
It's still the NVIDIA chip.
And by the way, NVIDIA is not going to stand still here.
You know, they've got things on the horizon,
a very aggressive product launch as we head into 24 and 25,
you know, B100, aka Blackwell.
So, you know, let's not write off the NVIDIA advantage.
But as I said, their software ecosystem, CUDA in particular,
is super powerful for NVIDIA.
Moving away from perhaps the picks and the shovels, the chips,
to actually who are building the models,
who's applying the models most efficiently,
it's been all about Microsoft to a certain degree.
And starting to be Alphabet,
do you think that we need to broaden our perspective there as well?
How we're starting to see generative AI impact the business models?
Do you know, I think there was a lot of criticism of Gemini,
which of course was Google's launch around two weeks ago,
around latency issues, et cetera.
Okay, put that aside.
I think it misses the point.
What we saw with Google was multimodal.
I mean, that interaction had inference.
It had text.
It had image.
It had translation.
It had coding all at once.
So I think it gives you a future image of where this gen AI is going.
As you watch that silly thing with the guitar and the duck,
do see it if you haven't seen it.
You need to think about the applications in financial services,
in healthcare, in the industrial sector.
This is absolutely huge.
And I reckon as I was watching it, Caroline,
that maybe 26, 27, maybe 28,
we're going to look at the mouse, the keyboard.
I don't know.
What are those things?
Like ancient history, prehistoric stuff, right?
Because you're going to be able to interact with the computer
in a completely different way.
And the coding language is going to be English.
So lots of interesting implications.
Nancy, we're thoroughly enjoying this conversation.
One of the things I'm so interested about you
is earlier in your career,
you ran venture capital desks, private equity desks.
And I wonder if that changes your approach as a CIO.
When you look across public equities,
are you kind of conscious of what's happening upstream
in some of the earlier stage companies
who might benefit from what Caroline and I call
the picks and shovels, right?
The H100s underpinning the work in the R&D.
You know, absolutely.
So we have investments in both public and private markets.
And on the private side, I want to share with you a snippet.
One of our private equity managers,
so now we're talking about buyout,
reports that every single one of their companies
is using Gen AI in some form.
And they are seeing productivity enhancements of 30% to 40%.
That's huge, OK?
And that's in private equity buyout.
And the venture side, our managers
are reporting enormously interesting applications,
disruptive business models, horizontal uses of Gen AI,
vertical uses of Gen AI.
So there is so much more to come here.
We're aware of what's going on with the infrastructure layer,
as you mentioned.
But once we get past that 24 and into 25,
expect a whole host of disruptive business models.
And more importantly, business applications.
We're going to go to work, and this
will be embedded in business processes.
And we're still early in that journey so far this year.
So boy, when you're thinking about allocating,
and as global CIO of what is $67 billion worth of money,
where do you go private versus public?
Where do you think the valuations are more sustainable?
Where has the pain been felt necessarily so already?
So first of all, everything we do is customized to clients.
And so it has to meet their return, their risk,
their liquidity preference.
Because obviously, private equity and venture capital
come with a longer term time horizon.
So it has to be appropriate to client circumstance.
But having said that, we do recommend for those clients
that it's appropriate to have their foot
in both the public and the private markets.
Remember, the public markets today in the United States,
30% of the index is seven companies.
Pretty concentrated, pretty highly correlated
to those seven stocks, et cetera.
Although we think the other 493 represent some good value here.
But nonetheless, you're able to play a whole host
of different parts of the economy,
different parts of companies, disruptive companies,
core businesses.
Remember, there's 40,000 so-called private companies
in the States today.
What do we have?
1,500 public companies.
So you can see you're not really accessing
the full part of the economy.
So again, for clients where it's appropriate,
we do like both public and private markets.
And we do believe that the long-term return
from private equity, buyout, growth, and venture
can be quite substantial.
Do come back.
It's been great to have you on, Nancy.
Thank you so much.
Nancy Curtin of LT Tiedemann Global.
We thank her.
Meanwhile, coming up, Elon Musk's potential AI dominance.
We're going to stick on the AI theme
and talk about X's grok.
How might I overtake ChatGPT?
This is Bloomberg Technology.